you [ __ ] us once shame on us you [ __ ] us
twice shame on you you're dead cool
what's up everybody welcome back for
another breakdown of Twin Peaks the
return this week we're on part ten and
I'm very excited because look who's back
I got Greg after you're finished
watching this video check out some of
the other stuff we got on this channel
just this morning we dropped a breakdown
of Game of Thrones so you definitely
want to see that and don't forget to
subscribe subscribe Greg okay man you
got a snap out of this man we got to do
this breakdown I got something I got
this
see if this works oh hey oh hello
as always we're going to start with
breaking down the plot a little bit then
we're going to get on over to some
Easter eggs and theories and then some
questions that we have moving forward
and then we'll hit some of your comments
hello
like last week the plot was very sort of
sick in this episode although moved a
little bit more slowly yeah this one's
very slow compared to the last couple
episodes where everything's moving and
building up very fast and it's the
shortest episode see we got so far right
that was like five or six minutes
shorter than the regular episodes but
that all said I think the main theme we
can take away from this episode is
really about family dynamics and
domestic [ __ ] Laura Palmer's spirit
lives on this crazy episode which pretty
much portrays women is from loving
caring gentle sensitive and also it
takes everything and puts it into this
like biowing world of men kind of oh
yeah yeah with massive amounts of
victimization that said though this was
also one of the funniest episodes I
think of the series so far yeah the tone
shifts so damn hard from comedy to just
violence and sex yeah in seconds why you
have to make something so simple so
[ __ ] difficult okay so in this
episode we didn't get Bob but we got the
next best thing when it comes to just
being a pure [ __ ] and I was Richard
oh man so much Richard well so first off
he goes right out and murders Miriam who
witnessed him running the boy over a few
episodes ago yeah basically what
happened there right was that he found
out from Miriam before he murdered her
that she had made a phone call decided
to contact the Twin Peaks Police
Department by the least efficient means
necessary which was by mail and now of
course we know he's got Chad working on
the inside who sort of swoops in and
sneaks that letter out of the Twin Peaks
elite department mail and it's now gone
we've got a pretty major major scene
where we come back we find out that
horn is alive yeah and tied to the
dining room table for safety I thought
we did and I thought there would be a
funeral and that's what we get Audrey
right nope not yet
that is not how we're getting Audrey
back now he's also got a crazy freaky
talking bear toy yes we'll get into that
and and then basically the rest of that
sequence is Richard coming in sort of an
almost a level of home invasion second
of his in the episode where he now comes
and terrorizes his brother or his uncle
and his grandma and significant there is
now we have a little bit more insight
into the Horne family tree for a little
while we thought it was maybe possible
that Richard could be in the offspring
of Ben or maybe Jerry possibly but now
we've got sort of certainty that that is
not the case
it's Audrey's I mean you could kind of
have some kind of twist making it Donna
but why the hell would she have the horn
last names right why we call her grandma
there's a there's a slim chance that
there's Donna there and I think maybe
the only thing that would make that
possible in my mind is that we also
learned more about Ben's relationship
with Sylvia where they're like clearly
separated she's trying to extort him for
money after Richard rubs her and so
maybe in there somewhere else is that
you know in that 25 year period of time
maybe something did change between Donna
and Ben and I think there is still a
chance there but my money's on Audrey
yeah it's crazy though throughout that
whole sequence not the name Audrey
wasn't heard what or anything about your
mom is gonna be merged so that's what
I'm a little worried about where exactly
Audrey is in this whole scenario and if
she's even out of her coma or something
weirds going on oh yeah I agree she is
suspiciously under mentioned here yeah
and then we got Colorado singing Red
River Valley oh man that was a tree you
know Harry Dean Stanton who by the way
also turned 91 and for
day happy birthday is just one of my
favorite actors in general but like
having a little like crooning guitar
being with and just nailed it for me
I hope somehow Karl Rock has something
to do with Richard Gideon has come up
into at the very end of this series
that's what we're looking for right like
this where the where Karl rod falls into
place now in that scene or immediately
connected to that scene we find that
that Becky is living at the trailer park
right there because of another violence
against women scene that we get pretty
much right at the beginning in the
episode which makes me wonder like does
is he going to be a like an
interventionist force [ __ ] nightmare
he's been there with what you're killing
the kid and he's been there now with
Stephen with Becky and that scene which
is pretty much mirroring the Leo Shelley
storyline right exactly
we got a lot of B characters this
episode more than anything right and one
of them the biggest ones I think I was
whole episode with the Mitchell brothers
right we talked about them in the past
saying when are we going to see more of
dimension brothers now we got it we got
so much Mitchum brothers it's like
coming out of our ears right and it's I
think some of the funniest stuff that we
saw in the episode my favorite funny
part
speaking of pacing was a little while
later back at the casino where they
asked Andy to go out to the floor to
talk to Tom Sizemore and she goes out
there and we only see the conversation
taking place but we don't hear it and
she's down there just stick you lating
pointing things out looking around and I
mean I don't even know like how long
that went on for for four [ __ ] hours
I would love to know how Lynch just told
it till he was directing her just go out
there and start pointing that [ __ ] and
we'll we'll tell you when to stop funny
parts aside you actually got quite a lot
of caught with the mission brothers we
find they find out through
the news that like the spike has been
captured and they can cancel their head
on they also find out from the same news
story that dougie Jones is and
definitely an interesting character
mister kaelin Dave's is actually mr.
Jones now what we get a little bit more
of two is in terms of converging plot
lines is that we go back to Duncan Todd
turns out Duncan Todd is working with
Anthony Sinclair played by Tom Sizemore
and we get finally a more or less direct
connection through the food chain from
Bob Cooper to trying to take out dougie
Joan by the way Duncan Todd is doing a
an awful job right now
well the direct approach didn't work
very well so now we're trying a plan to
make the Mitchum Brothers think that
dougie Jones is their enemy and of
course we have Tom Sizemore repeatedly
telling them camana me and Douglas Jones
I kind of like that
Lynch sort of almost continuously has
the sort of commentary about like hitmen
and bad guys that like there are tears
of bad guys but they're stupid at every
level it's just the really dumb ones are
at the bottom and then then not quite as
dumb ones are a little bit further up
this is Mulholland Drive
to the next right right absolutely
and now for our weekly update on dougie
Jones yeah dougie had an interesting
week very interesting rocky I think it's
worth mentioning that Naomi Watts
continues to be absolutely director in
this series and when she just turns into
developing this sudden affection for her
husband that's like sexually charged she
just owns it with like language and and
and and
her presence briefing it was really good
it was very compassionate to you felt
like sorry at points and just plenty one
of the things that we were talking about
for after that scene was over there in
bed and cuddling and she says I love you
and he you know in his dougie way sort
of inadvertently reciprocate and I think
in that moment we were both like I think
we got dougie for a while for a while
yeah I'm okay with this but I know
people are going to be a little mad at
this but I think we're going to have
dougie or I hope I'm wrong I'm saying
this now just to hope that I'm wrong I
just jinx it but I think we're going to
have dougie for a lot longer than we
thought just because now this confirms
dated after that scene in the bedroom
if only other times didn't this sort of
does even the dumb doctor can give them
a cat scan to figure out what's wrong
with him
right okay now in this episode we also
got some very Twin Peaks scenes that
have to do with the sort of more freaky
storylines sometimes that are going on
in typical Twin Peaks fashion and those
two are with Cole in his hotel room and
then later on we get a phone call
between Hawk and Margaret the lovely
okay spheal whole episode is travelling
along we're getting just a regular you
know new return stuff and then all of a
sudden Gordon Cole opens the door then
BAM right he sees Laura when he opens
the door
it's from fire walk with me from right
after Laura realized that Bob and her
father and Leland were the same the same
person and then she runs to Donna to
sort of find an anchor why that
particular shot from fire walk with me
I'm not totally sure there's a part of
me that has even though as I've said and
a little bit concerned about whether
Albert's still a good guy maybe it's
possible that what we're seeing there
still is
you know that there is like a bond of
friendship between Albert and Gordon
it's also true that he was delivering
information about Diane who we are now
worried about and maybe there's some
tithes there to just trust yeah issues
in general which is would be the
callback to fire walk with me plot wise
that's really important right so now we
now we know that the FBI knows that
Diane is in communication with somebody
they don't know with who and the
communication from phone phone was
through a server in Mexico if they're
planning some kind of twist here or some
she could be a bad guy I have a feeling
more maybe Bob just has something on her
right
maybe there's the child involved Linda
and it's her child who knows and
probably got something on her in trying
to make me like Blackman personally I
like this theory that this is where the
Linda's out of the equation comes from
either way and this is what's been
talked about quite a lot since that last
episode that the text that that he sends
from his phone and the text of she
receives are somewhat different yeah one
of them is all lowercase and the other
one is all capped with punctuation and
it's been suggested that maybe there's a
middle person in there somewhere and
honestly that sounds totally acceptable
to me at this point
yeah I mean Tammy shows at the cold door
and right now she's got a photo that's
taken from one of the cameras in New
York from one of the early cards and it
is totally a picture of Bob Cooper and
you know this is this is the everything
sort of coming together like we're
checking off the mysteries like one at a
time and that's this is like another
like confirming what we thought was the
case before it's like this episode's
going slow but here we're going to give
you one thing Bob built the box there
you go there's that and then let's go
back to the slow plot there's one more
thing in that sequence with the FBI
other than a little bit earlier Albert
and Constance may be gonna hook you know
at the hotel restaurant I love that
scene it is adorable at the very
beginning of the hotel room scene with
Gordon Cole he's sitting there got a
Sharpie doing a drawing on a piece of
paper and what the heck is that about no
idea but again it's another thing just
like we got with the Garmin Rochelle and
the law the corn the mushroom cloud this
is really just Gordon coral as Lynch
himself given us metaphor for the whole
shuttle apparently so we've got like a
creature like a crocodile with electric
antlers or something two horns and a and
then arm reaching into this shot that
has either a bracelet or a watch on it I
don't know
I have absolutely no idea what's going
on and then also we get Margaret the law
lady giving a little speech to hawk
right I keep I keep getting just a
little bit excited every time she comes
back because it's like she hasn't passed
away right
I just think oh wait there's yet another
moment with Margaret this is great but
now what she says getting dark
things are getting dark and that sort of
I think the overall message is that
we're getting closer and closer to where
things are coming to it Laura is the one
also the title lor is the one it's the
same thing she says years ago for the
intro for Twin Peaks oh good catch of
course we go back to Jerry I don't know
about the rest of you but every time
there's a shot of mountains trees or
landscapes I'm hoping we're going back
to Jerry and I think there were maybe
two or three before the actual scene
with Jerry and it was really short he's
out there he's got his cell phone up
he's trying to get out of the woods but
he does say oh we also get the return of
dr. amp dr. Jacoby is doing his live
show which is wonderfully paranoid as
ever and Nadine is still listening to it
and I you know one of the best things
about this scene is that we get a cut to
the exterior of her store and so we know
she's got a store great run silent run
drapes she did it and better store and
the store window is just moving drapes
and one gold [ __ ] digging shovel so
we've finally seen a gold [ __ ] thinking
trouble put to use and one more thing
also in that scene when Jacobi's on his
sort of like ranting tirades probably a
lot of people notices but he did make a
reference to red balloons and then they
brought like a big red [ __ ] balloon
and we keep seeing them throughout the
series and this was not an accident
Tingting more red balloons see how this
goes okay let's get on to some Easter
eggs and references from part 10 Greg
I'm going to toss it over to you here
man you're the one got it
you might notice there's a tiny little
angel in the front of Marian's trailer
it's a subtle callback to Laura Palmer
as the angel and fire walk with me at
the very end this episode felt like all
about Laura Palmer and her life in a way
it is felt like her spirit I can see
with I can see that carl sings the song
red river valley again more cowboy
themes we're getting here oh man cowboys
you know what that makes me think of
beautiful even Johnny horns bear
resembles the character from Lynch's
short film dumb land yeah I can totally
through that that scary round mouth is
so dumb Landy yeah
so when Chad goes back into the
sheriff's department and he takes his
donut he touches two Donuts gross gross
gross
the last Easter Egger reference I don't
know if it's totally fair to call it
that is that we got back Rebecca Del Rio
at the Roadhouse
she is the woman with the absolutely
amazing performance of crying in Mahone
drive now whether that is a connection
to Mulholland Drive again we don't
necessarily know but I feel like that
spiritual relationship is now much
stronger and I feel so much better about
bringing up
Hollan drive every damn week and what is
her outfit look like oh that dress the
red ring dress
yeah I loved it it was great it's got
the oh yeah the call sheet between Peaks
has dozens of performers on there but
you don't know exactly what they're
playing so you had Skype here I was like
oh she's gonna play at the Roadhouse me
ask use at the Roadhouse Bashar yes just
as a junkie though and then you got Moby
I'm like okay cool I can't wait to see
Moby play oh he's in the background I
love that he's just in the background
except the scene stealer and that one
was also the drummer couldn't take your
eyes off him so this episode really felt
more into David Lynch's 90s work
especially in the home invasion scene
Richard he it felt very much like while
that hardly proper gorge I can totally
do that
and then again Clockwork Orange you got
singing in the rain so you know what
that means
play it quacks gene Shalit you
[ __ ] let's get straight to these
comments now Richard Euler in the
YouTube comments is you guys missed the
thing that I just caught dougies boss
makes the forming of fist movement that
lil makes and fire walk with me it means
local law enforcement will be
belligerent go back and watch the scene
they caught me off guard right so what
that's referring to and by the way there
were actually quite a few comments last
week about this so it was hard not to
bring up basically what that's a
reference to is in fire walk with me
where the FBI agents are presented a
dancing performance from this woman all
dressed in red and the whole thing is
coded information to the FBI now whether
Mullins was doing that what do you think
I don't know about that just yet I feel
like again it was Mullins reliving his
old boxing days he's like I'm going to
knock out Anthony when I see him right
I'm inclined to agree with you that was
my first impression I didn't quite see
the the fire walk with me connection but
I can see how other people saw it it
makes you wonder is there some
connection to the bureau and Mullins is
past and should we be keeping an eye out
for more glitches at Lucky seven
insurance
y-o-u in the youtube comment says is no
one going to mention the fact that hawk
already found the entrance to the black
lodge and it's not said anything about
it to anyone maybe that scene was set in
the future but I don't know okay
you know I was thinking about this when
I first saw the comment and I saw a few
other people make similar comments about
hawk sort of retaining information and a
lot of people seem to think like yeah
you know what actually like it's sort of
justified that he wouldn't be trusting
everybody especially we've got somebody
like Chad around and makes a certain
amount of sense and I think what
actually lends to that even more is that
when Margaret calls him the sort of
middle of her statement is to very
specifically reassure him that he can
trust
the sheriff truman's and a few other
good people so my guess is that you know
moving forward
maybe next episode Hawk is going to let
me I seen he's seen it right well we'll
see what I think I think that's what
we're going alright guys thank you so
much for watching as always hit us up in
the comments section if you missed
anything yeah you can also get us on
Twitter our handles are down in the
description make sure to keep here to
GameSpot universe everybody I'll buy a
spa